>> So the next lesson is going
to be on guarded transitions.
Guarded transitions are basically
a way of saying you cannot
transition if this condition is not met.
So it is essentially a guard for
your transition.
So let's say that over here,
our alarm example.
We don't want this candle to exceed five.
So we don't want the user to
keep pressing on and off.
Obviously, this is a contrived example,
but
this just goes to demonstrate
how guarded transitions work.
So let's go to the scratch index.
All right, so currently,
we did before we're incrementing
the counts every single time
we toggle from pending and
let's say we don't want
this to go past five.
We could do what's called
making a guarded transition.
So we're essentially saying
this toggle transitions
shouldn't happen if the count
is greater than five.
So the way we do that is by
adding a condition over here.
So it's cond or
C-O-N-D over here and this has been
the source of a lot of confusion,
by the way, in version five.
This is gonna be renamed to guard in.
There will be a deprecation
warning in the future.
But for now, it's called cond.
And so this cond takes exactly
the same two arguments
as our actions do,
which is context in event.
And so we could say only
allowed this transition to
happen if context.count is less than or
equal to 5.
So, gotta return that.
So basically, if the count is 5,
it's going to yeah, so
we should do less than five just so
that we don't allow it to get past 5.
So let's try this.
Click here, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Keeps going let's reload that.
Okay, so after reloading 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
You see that it no longer goes past 5 and
that's because that transition it's
like that transition doesn't even exist
anymore, because of this conditional.
And so this is what's called
a guarded transition.
Now if we wanted to go to another
state just as a follow through,
then we could do that as well.
And to demonstrate that,
I'm gonna go ahead and
actually put the state here as well.
So also showing you another trick.
The state value can be
represented as strings.
And because you could have
nested in parallel states too,
it's an array of strings and
we'll talk about that in a bit.
But I'm just gonna put state.toStrings,
which is an array of strings and
we'll join that with a space.
So the reason for doing this is because
I want to see what the current state is.
And then let's say that I want to add
another state which is I don't know,
rejected.
And let's say that when I toggle,
if this transition isn't taken.
So it's always gonna check
this first transition.
I'm gonna add a second transition
here that says, go to reject it.
So in other words, this is saying,
when toggle happens, go to pending and
do the increment action only
if this condition is true.
So only if context.count is less than 5.
Otherwise, go to the rejected state.
So now, let's see what happens.
Click, OK, four, five.
And the when we try to click again,
it's gonna go to rejected in
which nothing can happen.
So that's the guarded transition.
Are there any questions on that?
>> Is it wise to have your
business logic there?
Like I'm picturing like a wiziwig where
you're moving in like an address and
then you can't go further, because
it's an invalid address like is it?
>> I guess my question is more
like how much do we bloat
the state machine versus
just doing it elsewhere?
>> That's a good question.
So the question was about how
much business logic should we put
inside the actual state machine?
And so the answer is pretty much the same
answer as one of the previous lessons,
which was about parameterizing.
What we could do is we could
take this condition and
we could just make an abstract
form of the business logic.
Let's say we have
a condition called too much.
And so I could say const too
much equals that saying guard.
So basically, the context counts is
less than 5, then we have too much.
Now we do have to specify that in
the second argument over here,
which is an object that
takes all of these things.
And so over here, that's called guards.
This is also another reason
why in version five,
it's gonna be changed to guard
instead of cond, C-O-N-D.
And so we could say too much is well,
it's the same thing as that tooMuch,
guard over here.
So now when we reload, we're gonna
see that we have the exact same
logic it goes to rejected and
you could configure that too.
So you could make that per component or
per whatever uses that machine.
So to answer your question, yes,
you should not put too much business
logic in the state machine,
especially if it's something that needs to
change over time or
change based on the situation rather.
>> Just a side note on that, isn't the
recommendation basically that your machine
like definition is completely
serializable basically, right?
In which case, you would basically
always want to parameterize your various
actions and conditions and stuff like
that down into the second argument.
>> Okay, so the question was should
like is the ultimate goal to
make your machine completely
serializable as a best practice?
I would say yes, definitely.
And the reason why is because number one,
it's good for being able to,
even if you're not visualizing your
machine just taking a look at it and
being able to understand it in terms of
business logic instead of in terms of
the actual implementation details.
For example, I could read this like
a sentence, go to the pending target.
And do the increment action if there is a,
I guess I should call this not too much,
[LAUGH] not too much.
If the user didn't click this
button toMuch, basically.
And so that becomes really understandable.
Another reason too is because in
the future not only visualization tools,
but tools such as XD Python
which was mentioned earlier
ad also being able to convert to and
from STX and ML.
They're going to rely on just trying to
not have as many implementation details as
possible, so that your machines could be
sharable, reusable in different languages.
So yeah, I definitely think it's
important to at first when you're
prototyping your machine and
just making sure the logic works.
It's absolutely fine to do things in line
and it's fine to keep it that way too.
But if you do want to make it more
concise and more understandable and
usable in other contexts, then yeah,
it's definitely a worthwhile
goal to serialize your entire machine or
make it entirely serializable.
>> Rather have a follow up.
So like one of my first cracks at
a more complex machine with ex state
was a kind of a complicated
authentication system on our platform.
And I found that a lot of states and
lots of actions,
and can conditions, and
various things, and
my deficit machine definition
just being really big.
And I started to have like PTSD from
like Webpack config a little bit.
And I'm like man,
maybe I need to break this out and
do some better like object composition and
stuff like that.
Do you kind of like recommend that
when these machines get too big or
I've just saying I've kind of struggled
to find the balance of like where do I
start making this more digestible?
Once a machine definition gets pretty big,
hundreds of lines, basically.
>> Yeah, so the question was about,
basically what do you do when
your machine is too big?
Are there any patterns for making it more
concise or just organizing it better?
And [COUGH] the short
answer is yes there is and
that's something that we're going
to get into in the later lessons.
But essentially if you have
a machine that's too big,
you want to start applying separation
of concerns are actually just like
a segregated responsibility principle.
One of those principles
if not both of them, but
basically take a look at your machine.
Look what logic can be
separated into its own entity.
And instead of having that
all in one big machine,
you could have a machine
that invokes other machines.
Basically, makes other
machines responsible for
doing those tests in communicating
back with the parent machine.
And so that will be the contents
of the last exercise.
So we'll talk about that
definitely at the end of the day.